System Startup
The first program to run under Slackware besides the Linux kernel is init. This program reads /etc/inittab file to see how to run the system. It runs the /etc/rc.d/rc.S script to prepare the system before going into your desired runlevel. The rc.S file enables your virtual memory, mounts your filesystems, cleans up certain log directories, initializes Plug and Play devices, loads kernel modules, configures PCMCIA devices, sets up serial ports, and runs System V init scripts (if found). There are some scripts in /etc/rc.d that rc.S will call on to complete its work:

rc.S	This is the actual system initialization script.
rc.acpid	Starts the acpi daemon
rc.hotplug	This script starts hotpluggable subsystems
rc.modules	Loads kernel modules. Things like your network card, PPP support, and other things are loaded here. If this script finds rc.netdevice, it will run that as well.
rc.pcmcia	Probes for and configures any PCMCIA devices that you might have on your system. This is most useful for laptop users, who probably have a PCMCIA modem or network card.
rc.serial	Configures your serial ports by running the appropriate setserial commands.
rc.sysvinit	Looks for System V init scripts for the desired runlevel and runs them. This is discussed more in detail below.

Runlevels
After system initialization is complete, init moves on to runlevel initialization. A runlevel describes the state that your machine will be running in. Sound redundant? Well, the runlevel tells init if you will be accepting multiuser logins or just a single user, whether or not you want network services, and if you will be using the X Window System or agetty to handle logins. The files below define the different runlevels in Slackware Linux.

rc.0	Halt the system (runlevel 0). By default, this is symlinked to rc.6.
rc.4	Multiuser startup (runlevel 4), but in X11 with KDM, GDM, or XDM as the login manager.
rc.6	Reboot the system (runlevel 6).
rc.K	Startup in single user mode (runlevel 1).
rc.M	Multiuser mode (runlevel 2 and 3), but with the standard text-based login. This is the default runlevel in Slackware.

Adding a User
Slackware Linux makes adding a new user easy. All you have to do is run the /usr/sbin/adduser script. It will present you with a series of questions and then it will complete all of the necessary steps to get the account working.

After the account is setup, you can use the following programs to manage the account:

/usr/bin/passwd - Changes the password.
/usr/bin/chfn - Changes the finger information.
/usr/bin/chsh - Changes the user's login shell.
